What happens when you are buried alive
well? We will find out in this video i have
researched a little and found some interesting
stuff let's see how we can align that with our
character Paul and see how we get out of there.
Paul wakes up in a confined and dark space he can
barely move his hands are tied and he is gagged up
this tells us that he was buried purposely and
probably by someone that doesn't like him very
much we can also assume that he wasn't buried
too long ago neither that is important to know
as we will come to see you see the space in a
modern day coffin encapsulates around 886 liters
if we subtract the average space of a human body
we will get roughly 820 liters of air supply
this would give us approximately 5 hours of air
but if we were unconscious for god knows how long
we have no idea how long we've been already
breathing that limited air so we gotta keep this
in mind our character starts out well he tries
to orient himself and finds a zippo in his pocket
and is able to visually analyze the space he
sits in that's a wonderful advantage with this
he is able to cut through the fabric tying up
his hands with one of the screws peeking out of
the wood the first big challenge you will face
is calming yourself down an untrained mind will
keep on distracting you it will be busy trying to
convince you that you are as good as dead these
thoughts will invite fear in fact they will invite
the most intense fear you've ever experienced you
will start to breathe heavily and quickly using
much more oxygen than necessary which ironically
leads you to an even sooner death so staying calm
is of importance here not only will it literally
double your lifespan but it will also allow you
to think more clearly and yes it does matter
i've said it many times in previous videos but
mindfulness meditation in this situation is
invaluable especially when we are talking about
your last moments of life but in this video we
don't try to die in peace we try to escape and
get the hell out of there so air supply will be
enough for a few hours we have light and by now
we have already freed our hands and what is this
god bless the lord that's sort of like finding
your future wife on tinder chances are very low
boom you got a phone what now check the connection
of course but we must consider we are buried
around three to six feet deep right that means
connection could exist but it doesn't necessarily
have to and if it does it's probably pretty
unstable in our case here paul has connection
and is able to dial back home we furthermore
find out that he is an arabic speaking country
namely iraq that doesn't really help the situation
but i guess it is what it is he has not calmed
himself down yet and is increasingly agitated
that's a lethal mistake not only is he consuming
oxygen like a horny bull but he also won't be able
to convince anyone he calls if he were collected
and calm he could explain thoroughly and gain the
officer's trust officers are usually trained to
determine whether a phone call is real or fake
and by all means it is impossible for you to not
sound honest in this situation walk them through
let them know the state of the phone's battery
back for help in a calm manner back in 2010
there were still many us troops stationed in iraq
that's a benefit your phone can easily be located
through the nearest tower with which your phone
is connected and considering the three battery
bars on this vintage phone we can assume that we
have hours left using this device so hang tight
this could be your way out but you gotta manage
your emotions now tracing back a phone is quite
simple the fbi or whoever you're talking to would
contact your mobile carrier which then traces
back your phone by analyzing the signals coming
from your phone usually your phone transmits
data to the nearest cell phone tower through
this tower they can determine your approximate
location as you can imagine however using only
one tower is pretty inaccurate and that is where
cell phone triangulation comes into play basically
the method of using multiple towers around you to
calculate your position more accurately to do that
they measure the time it takes for your phone
to receive signals that were sent from multiple
towers around you obviously it takes longer for
your phone to receive signals from more distant
towers and thus it is possible to figure out your
position by calculating the time the signals take
to arrive at your phone this doesn't take long
but considering that you are in iraq the fbi
would need to contact the local u.s embassy which
then again connects to a local high official who
then initiates the action on your carrier's side
the united states seem pretty efficient in things
like this i can imagine troops actively looking
for you within 2 hours even if we assume that it
would take 3 hours your available oxygen will
probably suffice that is if you stop breathing
like a freak it's just too bad paul can't chill i
mean i get why you would freak out but then again
how about freaking out first and then place a
call paul failed convincing the fbi however that
is possible i don't know but he found another
number on his phone which by the way isn't his
when he calls a rough voice with a strong accent
replies he tells paul he would let him out if his
embassy made a transaction of 5 million usd by 9
pm today in a scene before we could see that it
is currently just past 6 p.m this is a chance to
negotiate if i were paul i would convincingly tell
my kidnapper that i had a close friend working
at the embassy and that 5 million dollars would
not be a problem out of experience i would say the
embassy will only send the money if they received
reassurance of my well-being the obvious goal is
to get out of this box first i would explain that
if i died in here he would not receive any money
for sure so it's a definitive loss but if he let
me out showed the embassy that i'm still alive
he would certainly have the chance to receive the
money it's a potential win to strengthen my point
i would add that if he didn't receive any money
by 9 pm he could shoot me if he agreed i would
tell him that i will contact the embassy and dial
him back in a moment afterwards i would call the
fbi let me be connected to the local u.s embassy
explain the situation and try to be located
through the triangulation method i have explained
before 9 pm leaves us around 2 hours and 30
minutes for anyone to intervene and free us
paul hasn't done any of that of course but there
are multiple interesting things that happen next
let me make clear that by now paul has called the
fbi a us-based police department plus a friend
of his and he has failed all three times that is
incredible at this point i just want to continue
enjoy watching him insulting people while slowly
wasting his oxygen i didn't know you could make
an entertaining movie with just one handsome
dude being stuck in a dark box with a sipple
and a cell phone using incredible profanity that
i unfortunately have to cut out well this movie is
pretty darn good and by looking at the next scene
it seems like paul didn't fail completely "Paul
i was informed of what's going on i want you to
know that we're already working on trying to get
you out of there" - that's a ray of hope this
would boost my confidence what i would do next
if i haven't already done that would be to do
anything to assist my operator then our operator
tells paul for example to turn off vibration mode
to conserve battery life at the same time he tells
him to give him his kidnapper's phone number so
they can locate him instead apparently locating
our phone is a bit tricky because it goes over
a carrier in egypt but if they can't find the
kidnapper they will most likely be able to find
us too right but just when i thought things would
change paul finds a bag underneath his legs at
this point i was just um i was a bit confused why
didn't he find this bag a bit earlier i mean this
is not a big space um this is uh confusing paul
because if you find yourself in an unknown place
the first thing you should always do is get to
know the environment in this bag he finds a lamp
a glowing stick and a knife you really would have
wanted to find it early on right although things
would boost my confidence it's just reassuring to
not have to worry about light i mean burning
up your zippo for light uses a lot of oxygen
and you don't really have much pole another insane
thing that paul hasn't paid any attention to
is the bottle of anti-anxiety pills that were in
his pockets too he had them since the beginning
yet for some reason didn't use any of them with
these pills he could have drastically slowed down
his breathing starting an hour ago and let's not
talk about the anti-anxiety effect of anti-anxiety
pills if he popped a couple he would have never
shouted at the fbi operator at the beginning
he could have easily arrived at the point where he
is now over 45 minutes ago but anyway let's talk
about something fun for a second okay would it
be possible to actually break through the casket
and free ourselves there are a few interesting
points i have found at this point we have a knife
right the casket as we have seen so far is only a
cheap provisional wooden box made out of cheap and
dry wooden bars we should be able to break through
it the question is how would the soil react i mean
since we got beverages recently we can assume
that the soil covering us is pretty loose that
is good and bad at the same time good in so far
that it would make it easier to dig through as
opposed to wet and heavy soil but the bad thing
is it would enter our casket at a tremendous
speed so can we get out of here let's have a look
in an older episode of mythbusters the team tried
to escape being buried alive they were able to
escape being buried under two feet of dirt we can
assume that paul with a bit of luck would also be
able to escape if he was also only covered by two
feet of dirt which is a possibility i think the
intriguing part about this clip is how the dirt
enters the coffin we can see that the surface only
collapses on the side where the hole has been made
that's an advantage that we should exploit as well
i would try to make a decent hole just below my
chin i will try to control the dirt entering as
much as i can and then push all the dirt down
to my feet what i'm trying to do here is let as
much dirt into the casket as possible so that
there is less above me the best case would be
to establish a tunnel reaching up to the surface
just as we have seen in the mythbuster episode
however even if we can't establish a tunnel we
are able to take away quite a bit of dirt above
us with this method remember how i said in the
beginning that our coffin holds around 800 liters
if we are talking about filling up just 25% of the
casket with pure dirt we can literally reshift
200 liters of dirt above us and that's quite an
advantage this would take time but it's not like
we have anything better to do right so the goal
is to eventually widen the hole so much that we
can almost sit up with our heads peeking through
this has to be done quickly and with a lot
of force as dirt will keep on raining on us
therefore i would take off my shirt put it over my
head and thus create an air tissue between my face
and the pouring dirt then i would wiggle around
like a worm push myself up with my hands and try
to get up to the surface as quick and controlled
as possible i think if buried with only two to
maybe three feet of dirt this might actually
work if it is more than that i'm afraid there
is probably no way to escape so perhaps you use
your lighter or your knife for a different purpose
in a later scene however we can even see a snake
entering paul's temporary home i first thought he
was hallucinating but i guess this was real
if anyone knows what type of snake this is
please let me know in the comments i wonder if
she's poisonous as well and if so what are the
symptoms of being bitten i assume it's probably
as shitty as suffocating in a pool of dirt but
you let me know however a snake entering
from the side of our casket implies that we
can't be too deep underneath the ground right up
on my research i haven't really found evidence
for snakes burying themselves deeply either this
one is special in which case you can and probably
will let me know in the comments section or we
aren't buried as deep as we think we are now
after successfully alienating the snake paul goes
back and forth calling his kidnapper the rescue
operator dan and his friends back home his time is
running out and he has not yet made a big attempt
to get out of there apart from dialing out for
help now granted okay external help was and still
is the biggest chance to survive here however
there is a time when you gotta make a decision
so if i were paul here i would have conserved
my phone battery and only connected with dan my
operator i would have taken my anti-anxiety pills
to slow down my breathing and engaged in mindful
meditation as much as possible i would have given
the phone number of my kidnapper to then as well
something paul has only done way too late into
the movie i still think being located and rescued
is the best option to survive this situation
another awkward thing was that at one point
paul's environment was bombarded by an airstrike
his coffin got completely shaken through through
the damage several holes have been created
inside this coffin and this resulted in lots
of sand pouring in rapidly this also suggests that
he wasn't buried all too deep paul here even heard
a prayer of a mosque just prior to the impact
and being buried underneath layers upon layers
of dirt i don't think you're able to hear anything
apart from your own heartbeat and fading breath
the point that i'm trying to make here is that the
snake the damage caused by the impact as well as
being able to hear voices all suggested we were
not buried all too deep and that an escape was
possible but even if we assumed that we were able
to escape this coffin it seems like the kidnappers
were waiting above all along meaning we would have
been taken out as soon as we got there at least
most likely but if i had to choose between slowly
suffocating in a dark box drowning in dirt or
being just shot dead above ground i would pick the
latter any time you see watching this movie and
thinking about ways to escape left me to conclude
that he could have escaped by himself i think he
legit had the chance to escape with the method
i have shared before especially having tools at
hand like a knife and the light source what would
happen if he made it up above remains in question
but considering that not escaping the coffin would
end in a sure death making a move would have been
preferable even though he tragically died in
the end he could and perhaps should have at
least attempted to get out of there i know this
is easier said than done so what do you think
is there a chance to survive did he make a stupid
mistake and how would you proceed if you suddenly
woke up tomorrow morning being buried alive
let me know in the comments and as always
i am so grateful that you made it this far thanks
for being here and i catch you in the next one